# ITSS-3312-Project-3
The main goal for this project was to add on to our Student Management System so that it could manage courses as well. New things included were adding jobs, adding courses, assigning courses, and displaying all that information to the user. First, we added new variables commandA, commandB, and commandC that would run the while loops which presented the different menu options. It also ran the code for whatever number commands the user would input. If and else if statements checked whether or not the input matched and would run the commands accordingly. The course and student interfaces were created in order to declare methods. It includes my student class with all the information on a student including their employment. The getters and setters resided there to display the employment info for each student.

Next, the Course Management System was added in. The first command added new courses, doing so would create a courses file if one did not exist beforehand. If and else statements checked whether or not a course number already existed. If it did not exist, it adds that new course. The second command assigns a student to a course. A Course Assignment file would be created if one did not exist before. The scanner can be seen here in which the user will enter the student ID and course ID. The for loop goes into the student array to find their information by their ID. If the IDs match, it assigns the student the course and displays a confirmation. The third command displays all students with assigned courses. The getters and setters are used here to pull up all the info on students that have an assigned course. The Course Assignment file keeps all of their IDs and assigned courses on file. The zero command exits the CMS and goes back to the beginning of the while loop to display the main menu. 

My code is split into 6 major parts:
1.	The scanner, variables, introduction line, and student array are located at the very beginning.
2.	The while loop for commandA that displays the main menu and which all other menus return to if exited from them.
3.	The while loop for commandB that runs through every number command 1,2,3,4,5,6,0 for the Student Management System. It can add a student, deactivate a student, display all students, search for a student, assign jobs, display jobs, and exit SMS.
4.	The while loop for commandC that runs through every number command 1,2,3,0 for the Course Management System. It can add a course, assign a student to a course, display all students with assigned courses, and exit CMS.
5.	The student and course interface that declare all methods used. The student class within the interface also includes private variables, getters and setters, and constructors that have all the student information. 
6.	The 0 option for commandA which will close the entire system and say goodbye.

I tested my code by entering in the example output given by the professor. At one point when I tried exiting SMS to swap to CMS, it kept repeating the same Student and Course Management System menu. The commandB and commandC variables were reset at the beginning to fix this. Another problem I came across was when after trying to add course ID, the program would just be blank white space after pressing enter. This happened because the scanner.hasnextLine() would try to go through the file and read it, but the last line would always be empty. It was fixed by adding in scanner.hasnextInt() which checked if there was another int instead of a line and grabbing it. 
